feat(goals): autonomous goal runner with loop engineering, /goal CLI, TUI, and channels (#6505)
librefang/librefang: changelog.d/added/model-router.md

Reviewer: Two problems with this fragment, per `changelog.d/README.md` / CLAUDE.md's changelog conventions:

1. **Wrong format.** The body is wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ... ``` ` code fence — every other fragment in `changelog.d/added/` (e.g. `6696-polish-i18n.md`) is plain prose, one sentence per line, no fence, ending `(#PR) (@author)`. This fragment also omits the `(#PR)` entirely, ending only `(@DaBlitzStein)`. `cargo xtask collect-fragments` / the release tooling expects the plain format; this one will likely render literally with the fence markers in the CHANGELOG and GitHub release body.

2. **This is the only changelog fragment in the whole PR, and it's for the wrong feature.** It describes "ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system," which isn't what PR #6505 is about per its own title and description ("autonomous goal runner with loop engineering, /goal CLI, TUI, and channels"). There is no fragment anywhere in this diff for the actual headline feature — the goal runner, loop engineering, verifier, evaluator model, GOAL_LEARNED memory, auto-skill creation, `/goal` CLI, TUI Goals screen, or the `/goal` channel command. Per CLAUDE.md, a changelog fragment is mandatory and its bullet becomes the GitHub release note verbatim — as it stands, the release notes for this PR would describe an unrelated alpha model-routing feature and say nothing about the goal runner at all.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer: Two changelog.d nits (couldn't push a fix directly — fork PR, no write access on `librefang_v2`):

1. This fragment's filename doesn't lead with the PR/issue number per `changelog.d/README.md` ("lead it with the PR or issue number so fragments sort in a useful order"). Suggest renaming to `6505-model-router.md`.
2. The PR's headline feature — the autonomous goal runner itself (`/goal` CLI, Goals TUI screen, loop-engineering verifier, channels) — has no changelog.d fragment at all. It's clearly user-facing and belongs under `added/`. Suggested content:

```markdown
Added an autonomous goal runner that drives an agent toward a stated objective across multiple turns instead of leaving goal tracking purely passive.
Each tick sends the goal's context to the assigned agent and parses `GOAL_PROGRESS:` / `GOAL_DONE` / `GOAL_BLOCKED` markers from the reply, looping until the goal completes, an iteration cap is hit, an operator stops it, or the daemon shuts down.
Opt-in "loop engineering" mode adds a verifier agent that judges each iteration's output before progress is accepted, auto-spawns a fresh reviewer sub-agent after repeated rejections, and captures `GOAL_LEARNED:` markers into persisted memory and auto-created skills.
A separate evaluator model can independently judge goal completion instead of trusting the agent's self-reported `GOAL_DONE` alone.
New `librefang goal <description>` CLI command, a Goals TUI screen, and a dashboard create/edit flow with an agent selector expose the feature; runs survive a daemon restart via a durable store with stale-run auto-resume (#5744, #6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```

as `changelog.d/added/6505-goal-runner.md`.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer: **Changelog fragment doesn't match the repo's format, and there's no fragment for the PR's actual subject (the goal runner).**

Per `changelog.d/README.md`, a fragment should be plain prose (no code fence), one bullet without the leading `- `, ending `(#PR) (@your-github-login)`. This file wraps the bullet in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence and ends with `(@DaBlitzStein)` only — missing the trailing `(#6505)` reference the format requires. The filename also doesn't lead with the PR/issue number (convention: `changelog.d/<section>/<number>-slug.md`).

Separately: this fragment documents the bundled `ModelRouter` feature, but I don't see any fragment for the goal-runner / loop-engineering / `/goal` work that this PR is actually titled for — worth adding one so the release notes reflect the PR's stated scope, not just the incidental model-router addition.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the repo's changelog.d convention (see `changelog.d/README.md`):

1. It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ... ``` ` code fence. That syntax isn't part of this repo's fragment format at all — `cargo xtask collect-fragments` expects the bullet body directly, without the leading `- ` and without any fence, so as written the literal backticks and fence marker would land in the CHANGELOG / release notes.
2. It's one long paragraph rather than "wrapped one sentence per line."
3. It has no `(#PR)` reference (only `(@DaBlitzStein)`), so this PR will also pick up the auto-generated `- <PR title> (#6505) (@author)` line and end up described twice in the release body.

Also worth a rename to lead with the PR/issue number (`6505-model-router.md` or similar) so fragments sort usefully, per the README's naming guidance.

Suggested reformat:
```
Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default).
`model_profiles.toml` maps task tags to specific models/providers, and a complexity evaluator picks the best matching profile.
New `agent_spawn` params `profile` and `model_override` (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer: Two changelog issues here:

1. This is the only fragment in the whole PR, and it documents `model_router` — a smaller, alpha, disabled-by-default side feature. There's no fragment at all for the actual headline feature (the autonomous goal runner: loop engineering, verifier loop, `GOAL_LEARNED`, auto-skills, `/goal` CLI, TUI screen, channel command). Per CLAUDE.md's Git Conventions, every user-facing change needs its own `changelog.d/` fragment, and this entry ends up in the GitHub release body verbatim — right now that body would describe the minor alpha feature and say nothing about the main one.
2. This fragment doesn't follow the documented format in `changelog.d/README.md`: it's wrapped in a ```` ```release-note:added ```` code fence (the format is a plain file with the bullet body, no fence/wrapper), it's missing the trailing `(#PR)` (only has `(@DaBlitzStein)`), and the filename doesn't lead with the PR/issue number as the README asks for ("lead it with the PR or issue number so fragments sort in a useful order").

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment's format doesn't match the repo convention documented in `changelog.d/README.md` / CLAUDE.md:

- It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` fence — every other fragment in `changelog.d/` is plain prose, no fence.
- It's missing the `(#6505)` PR reference — the convention is `(#PR) (@login)`, and this only has `(@DaBlitzStein)`.
- The filename convention is `<pr-or-issue-number>-<slug>.md` (e.g. `6623-wire-max-content-chars.md`) so fragments sort usefully; `model-router.md` has no number.

`cargo xtask collect-fragments` folds these files verbatim into the dated CHANGELOG section that later becomes the GitHub release body, so the stray fence would likely render literally in the release notes rather than as a formatted bullet.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: Two issues with this fragment against `changelog.d/README.md`'s documented format:

1. It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ``` ` fence. Every other fragment in the tree (e.g. `changelog.d/added/6696-polish-i18n.md`, `changelog.d/changed/6701-update-openrouter-model-snapshot.md`) is plain prose text, no fence — the worked example in the README shows plain markdown. `cargo xtask collect-fragments` folds the file's raw contents in as the bullet body, so as written this would render the fence markers and language tag literally inside `## [Unreleased]` and the eventual GitHub release body, rather than a clean bullet.
2. Missing the `(#PR)` reference — the bullet ends `(@DaBlitzStein)` only. Not tooling-enforced, but per the README this means the PR keeps its auto-generated `- <PR title> (#N) (@author)` line *in addition* to this one, so the entry shows up twice in the release notes, and `cargo xtask release` will print a warning about it.

Also worth flagging: this fragment only documents the ModelRouter addition. The PR title and diff cover a much larger surface — the loop-engineering / verifier / evaluator rework of the goal runner, the `/goal` CLI command, the new TUI goal screens, and channel-bridge changes — none of which have a changelog.d fragment at all.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This PR's headline feature per its title — "autonomous goal runner with loop engineering, /goal CLI, TUI, and channels" — has no `changelog.d/` fragment at all; only this ModelRouter side-feature has one. Per repo `CLAUDE.md`, the changelog fragment is what ends up verbatim in the GitHub release body, so the loop-engineering/verifier/evaluator/`/goal` CLI/TUI work (the bulk of this diff) will be invisible in release notes unless a fragment is added under `changelog.d/added/` for it.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match `changelog.d/README.md`'s documented format:

- It's wrapped in a ```` ```release-note:added ... ``` ```` code fence. The repo's convention (see the worked example in `changelog.d/README.md`) is a plain markdown bullet body with no fence and no `release-note:` marker — that syntax isn't the one this repo's `cargo xtask collect-fragments` / `scripts/check-changelog-attribution.py` expect, and it will end up folded verbatim into `CHANGELOG.md` and the GitHub release body (per the README: *"the entry ends up in the GitHub release body verbatim"*), fence and all.
- Four sentences are crammed onto a single line. Both `changelog.d/README.md` ("wrapped one sentence per line") and the repo-root `CLAUDE.md` prose-wrapping rule ("One sentence = one line, regardless of length") require one sentence per line.
- No `(#PR)` reference — the bullet ends `(@DaBlitzStein)` only. Not tooling-enforced, but per the README this means the PR's number keeps its auto-generated line in the release notes too, so the change gets described twice.

Suggest reformatting to the plain multi-line bullet form shown in the README's worked example, ending with `(#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)`.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match `changelog.d/README.md`'s format: it wraps the entry in a ```release-note:added``` code fence (not this repo's convention, which is plain prose) and ends with only `(@DaBlitzStein)` — no `(#6505)` (or any PR/issue number), which the README requires so `cargo xtask release` doesn't double-emit a generated line for this PR.

Separately: this is the only changelog fragment anywhere in this 48-file PR, and it documents an unrelated "ModelRouter" feature — there's no fragment at all for the PR's actual headline feature (autonomous goal runner, loop engineering, `/goal` CLI, TUI, channels). Please add `changelog.d/added/6505-goal-runner.md` describing that, per `changelog.d/README.md`.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: Two format problems that diverge from every other fragment in `changelog.d/` and from the worked example in `changelog.d/README.md`:

1. The body is wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence. `render_fragment_bullet` in `xtask/src/changelog.rs` only strips a leading Markdown list marker (`- `, `* `, `+ `) from the first line — it does not know about this fence syntax, so `cargo xtask collect-fragments` will fold the literal fence lines (` ```release-note:added ` and the closing ` ``` `) into `CHANGELOG.md` as part of the bullet text. That corrupts the assembled `## [Unreleased]` section and, per CLAUDE.md, ends up verbatim in the GitHub release body. No other fragment in this directory uses this wrapper — they're all plain prose per the README's documented format.
2. The filename doesn't lead with the PR/issue number (`model-router.md` vs. e.g. `6505-model-router.md`), which the README says fragments need "so fragments sort usefully" — every sibling fragment in `changelog.d/added/` follows the numbered convention.

Also worth a look: the bullet ends with `(@DaBlitzStein)` but no `(#6505)` PR reference, so per the README this bullet won't suppress the auto-generated `- <PR title> (#6505) (@author)` line and will end up duplicated in the release notes.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This is the only `changelog.d/` fragment in the PR, and it covers the `ModelRouter` / `model_profiles.toml` alpha feature only. The PR's headline feature — the autonomous goal runner (`GoalRunner`, verifier loop engineering, `GOAL_LEARNED` self-evolution, `/goal` CLI, the goals TUI screen, `/goal` channel command, multi-channel instance management in the Comms TUI screen) — has no fragment at all. Per CLAUDE.md, a changelog entry is a new file under the matching `changelog.d/<section>/` directory (e.g. `changelog.d/added/5744-goal-runner.md`), named after the tracking issue (#5744 is referenced throughout `goal_runner.rs`'s doc comments) — not an edit to `CHANGELOG.md` directly. Please add one (or more, if the goal runner and the TUI/channel surfaces warrant separate entries) covering the actual scope of this PR.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the repo's documented format (`changelog.d/README.md`).
The file should hold the bullet body without the leading `- `, wrapped one sentence per line (continuation lines indented two spaces), ending with `(#PR) (@your-github-login)` — see the worked example in the README.
This fragment instead wraps everything in a ```` ```release-note:added ... ``` ```` code fence (not a format this repo's `cargo xtask collect-fragments` / `check-changelog-attribution.py` tooling documents or expects), is a single dense paragraph rather than one sentence per line, and has no `(#PR)` reference at all — per the README's "Rules the tooling enforces" section, an unreferenced bullet means this PR still gets an auto-generated `- <PR title> (#N) (@author)` line *in addition to* this fragment, so the entry will appear twice in the release notes.
The `(@DaBlitzStein)` attribution itself is correctly present.
Please reformat to match `changelog.d/fixed/6623-wire-max-content-chars.md`'s shape and add the PR number.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: Mechanical fix (per `changelog.d/README.md`'s documented format): this fragment wraps the bullet body in a ` ```release-note:added ` fence, which is not part of the `changelog.d/` fragment format the tooling expects (`xtask/src/changelog.rs::render_fragment_bullet` only strips a leading `- ` list marker, not a code fence). As written it would fold into `CHANGELOG.md` as a bullet containing a literal code fence.

I applied the fix locally (plain bullet body, one sentence per line, ending `(#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)`) but could not push it to this fork branch (no maintainer-edit permission / proxy denies cross-repo push), so leaving it here for you to apply:

```markdown
Added ModelRouter, a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default).
A new `model_profiles.toml` maps task tags to specific models/providers, and a complexity evaluator picks the best matching profile.
New `agent_spawn` params `profile` and `model_override` let a spawn opt into the router or pin a model directly (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```

Separately — see the comment on `model_router.rs` below: as far as I can tell the router is not actually wired into anything yet, so this changelog description may be getting ahead of what ships.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: Two changelog.d issues:
1. Format: per CLAUDE.md/`changelog.d/README.md`, a fragment's body is plain prose ("without the leading `- `, one sentence per line"), not wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ``` ` code fence — this fence syntax isn't part of the documented format and `cargo xtask collect-fragments` folds fragments in verbatim, so this will render literally as a fenced code block in `CHANGELOG.md`/the GitHub release body. The entry is also missing the required trailing `(#PR)` reference — CLAUDE.md specifies the bullet should end `(#PR) (@your-github-login)`, but this only has `(@DaBlitzStein)`.
2. Coverage: this is the *only* changelog.d fragment added by the entire PR, and it documents the ModelRouter side-feature — there is no fragment at all for the actual "autonomous goal runner with loop engineering, /goal CLI, TUI, and channels" feature this PR is titled for.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: A few format issues with this fragment against `changelog.d/README.md`'s convention:

1. It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ... ``` ` code fence. That's not a marker this repo's assembler understands — `render_fragment_bullet` in `xtask/src/changelog.rs` only strips a leading `- `/`* `/`+ ` list marker, not a code fence, so the literal ` ``` ` lines would be folded into `CHANGELOG.md` verbatim as part of the bullet text.
2. It's missing the trailing `(#6505)` — only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present. The convention (and every other fragment in `changelog.d/`) ends `(#PR) (@login)`.
3. The filename doesn't lead with the PR/issue number (should be something like `6505-model-router.md`) so it doesn't sort predictably against other fragments.
4. This is a large multi-part PR (goal runner loop engineering, `/goal` CLI, TUI screens, channel bridge integration) but the fragment only documents the ModelRouter slice — the rest of the PR has no changelog entry at all.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the format `changelog.d/README.md` documents:
- It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence; the worked example in the README is a plain markdown paragraph with no fence.
- All sentences are packed onto one line instead of "wrapped one sentence per line with continuation lines indented two spaces."
- It's missing the required trailing `(#PR)` — only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present, and the format requires `(#PR) (@your-github-login)`.
- The filename `model-router.md` doesn't lead with the PR/issue number as the README asks ("lead it with the PR or issue number so fragments sort in a useful order") — e.g. `6505-model-router.md`.

Since `cargo xtask collect-fragments` folds this verbatim into `## [Unreleased]` and it ends up in the GitHub release body as-is, the missing `(#PR)` in particular means this entry won't get attributed to this PR in the generated release notes.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: Changelog fragment doesn't match `changelog.d/README.md`'s format: the file must be plain prose (no leading `- `, one sentence per line), not wrapped in a ```` ```release-note:added ```` fence — `cargo xtask collect-fragments` reads the raw file body, so this fence text will land verbatim inside the Unreleased bullet. It's also missing the trailing `(#6505)` — only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present, and the spec requires `(#PR) (@login)`. Filename should also lead with the PR number (`6505-model-router.md`) so fragments sort in file-name order.

Separately: this is the only changelog fragment in the whole PR, and it covers only the ModelRouter piece. The actual headline feature — the autonomous goal runner, `/goal` CLI, TUI screens, and channel bridge command — has no changelog entry at all.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the documented `changelog.d/` format (see `changelog.d/README.md`): it's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence (the convention is plain prose, no fence), it isn't wrapped one sentence per line, and it's missing the trailing `(#PR)` reference (only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present). As written this likely won't fold cleanly via `cargo xtask collect-fragments`, and without a `(#6505)` reference the release flow will also emit a generated `- <PR title> (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)` line alongside it, duplicating the entry.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the format `changelog.d/README.md` documents.
Per the README: "One file, one bullet. The file holds the bullet body **without** the leading `- `... ending with `(#PR) (@your-github-login)`." — plain prose, no code fence.
`render_fragment_bullet` in `xtask/src/changelog.rs` only strips a leading `- ` / `* ` / `+ ` list marker (`strip_list_marker`); it does nothing with a ` ```release-note:added ` fence.
So `cargo xtask collect-fragments` will literally splice this into `CHANGELOG.md` as:
```
- ```release-note:added
  Added ModelRouter — ... (@DaBlitzStein)
  ```
```
— an unclosed/garbled code-fence-inside-a-bullet that breaks the CHANGELOG markdown and, per the release workflow, ships straight into the GitHub release body, the Dev.to article, and the social post verbatim.
Separately, the bullet is missing the trailing `(#6505)` PR reference the README's "Rules the tooling enforces" section asks for — not CI-fatal, but `cargo xtask release` will print a warning and the PR will get a duplicate generated line in the release notes.
Please drop the ` ```release-note:added ` / ``` ``` ``` fence wrapper and add `(#6505)` before the `(@DaBlitzStein)` attribution.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't follow `changelog.d/README.md`'s format: the body should be the bullet text alone (no leading `- `), ending `(#PR) (@login)` — not wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence, and it has no `#PR`/issue number at all (compare the worked example in the README). As currently written, `cargo xtask collect-fragments` would fold the literal ` ```release-note:added ` fence markers into `## [Unreleased]`, which then ship verbatim into the GitHub release body. The filename should also lead with the PR/issue number per the README's sorting convention (e.g. `6505-model-router.md`), and separately — this is the only changelog fragment in the whole PR; there's none for the actual goal-runner feature the PR is about.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default). New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers. Complexity evaluator picks the best profile. New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override`. (@DaBlitzStein)

Reviewer: This fragment only documents ModelRouter. The bulk of this PR — the autonomous goal runner's loop-engineering mode (generator/verifier loop, auto-spawned verifier/reviewer/sub-agents, `GOAL_LEARNED` self-evolution, evaluator-model judging), the new `/goal` CLI subcommand, the new Goals TUI screen, and the channel-bridge changes — has no changelog fragment at all. Per CLAUDE.md, each of these is a separate user-facing change and should get its own fragment under the matching `changelog.d/<section>/` directory (this PR bundles several distinct features into one changelog-less blob beyond the router).

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default). New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers. Complexity evaluator picks the best profile. New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override`. (@DaBlitzStein)

Reviewer: Two changelog nits:

1. This fragment wraps the bullet in a `` ```release-note:added `` code fence, which isn't the format this repo's tooling expects (see `changelog.d/README.md`'s worked example) — fragments are plain prose, one sentence per line, ending `(#PR) (@login)`. The `cargo xtask collect-fragments` step is unlikely to fold a fenced block in correctly. Also worth adding `(#6505)` before the `(@DaBlitzStein)` attribution so the generated per-PR line doesn't duplicate this one.

2. This PR's headline feature — the autonomous goal runner / loop engineering / `/goal` CLI+TUI+channels — has no changelog fragment at all; only the secondary ModelRouter alpha feature got one. Given how user-facing the goal-runner work is, it likely needs its own `changelog.d/added/6505-<slug>.md` entry.

I don't have write access to this fork to fix either directly, so flagging both here.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default). New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers. Complexity evaluator picks the best profile. New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override`. (@DaBlitzStein)

Reviewer: A few things off from the documented `changelog.d/` format (see `changelog.d/README.md` / CLAUDE.md Git Conventions):
- The entry is missing the trailing `(#PR)` reference — it ends with `(@DaBlitzStein)` only. The convention is `... (#PR) (@login)`, and this is also what lets `cargo xtask release` skip generating a duplicate `(#N)` line for this PR.
- Wrapping the body in a ```` ```release-note:added ```` fence isn't the documented shape — fragments are plain prose bullets (no leading `- `, no code fence); the section (`added/`) is already conveyed by the directory.
- Multiple sentences are crammed onto one line ("Added ModelRouter — ... default). New `model_profiles.toml` ... providers. Complexity evaluator ... profile. New `agent_spawn` params: ..."). CLAUDE.md's prose-wrapping rule applies to changelog bullets too: one sentence per line.

Also worth noting for scope: this fragment (and the whole ModelRouter feature it describes) doesn't obviously belong to the goal-runner/loop-engineering change this PR is titled for — CLAUDE.md's "one PR ↔ one issue" convention would suggest splitting it out, especially since (per the other comment on this PR) its HTTP surface isn't actually wired up yet.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default). New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers. Complexity evaluator picks the best profile. New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override`. (@DaBlitzStein)

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the repo's changelog.d format (see `changelog.d/README.md`): (1) it wraps the whole bullet in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence, which isn't part of this project's convention and will render literally; (2) it crams 4 sentences onto one line instead of one sentence per line; (3) it's missing the trailing `(#PR)` reference (only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present) so it won't dedupe against the generated release-note line for this PR. Separately: this is the only changelog fragment in the whole PR, and it covers ModelRouter only — there's no fragment at all for the actual headline feature (goal runner, `/goal` CLI, TUI, channels).

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```release-note:added
> Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default). New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers. Complexity evaluator picks the best profile. New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override`. (@DaBlitzStein)
> ```

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the format in `changelog.d/README.md`:

1. The body is wrapped in a ```` ```release-note:added ```` fence. `render_fragment_bullet` in `xtask/src/changelog.rs` has no code that strips a fence — it takes the raw body, prefixes the first line with `- `, and indents the rest. That means `cargo xtask collect-fragments` will splice the literal backtick lines into the assembled `## [Unreleased]` bullet, producing broken Markdown in the CHANGELOG and the GitHub release body.
2. It's one long line with four sentences crammed together, instead of one sentence per line (the repo's prose-wrapping rule, called out explicitly for changelog fragments in the README: "Prose is not hard-wrapped at any column; break only at sentence boundaries").
3. It's missing the trailing `(#6505)` PR reference — not CI-enforced, but per the README you keep the auto-generated `- <PR title> (#N) (@author)` line as a duplicate in the release notes without it.
4. The filename doesn't lead with the PR/issue number (`README.md`: "lead it with the PR or issue number so fragments sort in a useful order").

```suggestion
Added ModelRouter, a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default).
A new `model_profiles.toml` maps task tags to specific models and providers, and a complexity evaluator picks the best matching profile.
New `agent_spawn` params `profile` and `model_override` let callers steer or bypass the router (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```

Also worth renaming the file to `changelog.d/added/6505-model-router.md` while touching this.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the `changelog.d/README.md` format in a few ways:

1. It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` code fence. That's not part of the documented format, and `xtask/src/changelog.rs::fold_fragments` reads the file with a plain `fs::read_to_string` and folds it in verbatim — the fence markers would land inside `## [Unreleased]` and the GitHub release body as literal text.
2. The filename (`model-router.md`) doesn't lead with the PR number, per CLAUDE.md: "named after the PR or issue number so fragments sort usefully: `changelog.d/fixed/6623-wire-max-content-chars.md`".
3. The body crams four sentences onto one line instead of one-sentence-per-line (CLAUDE.md's prose-wrapping rule, which explicitly also covers changelog bullets).
4. It's missing the trailing `(#6505)` PR reference alongside `(@DaBlitzStein)` — not hook-enforced, but explicitly called for by CLAUDE.md and `changelog.d/README.md`.

Suggested fix (also rename the file to something like `6505-model-router.md`):

```suggestion
Added ModelRouter, a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default).
`model_profiles.toml` maps task tags to specific models/providers.
A complexity evaluator picks the best matching profile for each task.
New `agent_spawn` params `profile` and `model_override` let a spawn opt into or override routing (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```

Reviewer: Fragment format doesn't match `changelog.d/README.md` / CLAUDE.md's changelog-entry rule.
The file must hold the bullet body **without** a leading `- ` and with no wrapping — per the worked example it's plain prose, not a fenced code block.
Wrapping it in a ` ```release-note:added ... ``` ` fence means `render_fragment_bullet` (xtask/src/changelog.rs) will copy the fence lines verbatim into the assembled `## [Unreleased]` bullet, so the released CHANGELOG entry will contain literal ` ```release-note:added ` / ` ``` ` lines around the prose.
Please drop the fence and just write the sentence(s) directly, e.g.:
```
Added ModelRouter — a tag-based dynamic model selection system (alpha, disabled by default).
New `model_profiles.toml` with profiles maps task tags to specific models/providers.
Complexity evaluator picks the best profile.
New `agent_spawn` params: `profile` and `model_override` (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)
```
Also worth adding the `(#6505)` PR reference on the last line — not tooling-enforced, but without it the generated `- <PR title> (#6505) (@DaBlitzStein)` line still gets appended too, so the entry appears twice in the release notes (see README.md "Rules the tooling enforces").

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ```

Reviewer: This fragment doesn't match the format in `changelog.d/README.md`:

- It's wrapped in a ` ```release-note:added ` / ` ``` ` fenced code block. The fragment should be plain prose — `cargo xtask collect-fragments` will fold this file's raw contents (including the fence markers) verbatim into `CHANGELOG.md`, which isn't the intended shape.
- Multiple sentences are packed onto one line; the required format is one sentence per line, continuation lines indented two spaces.
- It's missing the trailing `(#PR)` reference — only `(@DaBlitzStein)` is present. Per the README this isn't hard-enforced by tooling, but without it the PR keeps its generated `- <title> (#N) (@author)` line too, so the entry appears twice in the release body.

Also worth noting: this is the only changelog fragment in the diff, but it covers the model-router side-feature rather than the PR's headline goal-runner / `/goal` CLI / TUI / channels feature — that one has no fragment at all.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
